This is a webapp that displays data about average delays at each station across the Melbourne Metropolitan Train Network, sourcing data from the Public Transport Victoria (PTV) public API (version 3).

You can access our webapp (a demo) online here: https://ptv-reliability-app.appspot.com/ .

## Webapp
<i>In order to run the web app locally via the webserver:</i>
```bash
virtualenv -p python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="<path_to_project_code_folder>/Assignment2-4b88333398c7.json"
cd default
python main.py
```
## Monitoring Service
In order to run the python script that harvests train punctuality data and populates the google cloud database, run the following in a bash shell from the root directory:
```bash
cd background && python api_tools.py
```

## Deployment to Google Cloud
### Google App Engine
1. Create a Google Cloud Project.
2. Navigate to 'Storage' in the google cloud console.
3. Navigate to 'Transfer' in the sidebar in the left-hand side of the page.
4. Copy from the Google Storage 'bucket' named 'ptv-services-data-dump' (select it as the source).
5. Follow the prompts to transfer an existing storage bucket into a new one. When creating a new bucket to transfer (i.e. copy into) as the 'destination' ensure that the bucket has 'Region' location type and choose 'australia-southeast1 (Sydney)' as the location. This bucket will be referred to as <your_bucket_name>.
6. Do not change any other settings and 'create'.

You now have access to a dump of the data from the original project/webapp, including station and route data. You can download this to your computer using google cloud tools as you see fit.

7. Run the following commands in a unix-like commandline/shell.

```bash
gcloud auth login
gcloud config set project <your-project-id>
gcloud datastore import gs://<your_bucket_name>/2019-10-19T13:54:02_88616/2019-10-19T13:54:02_88616.overall_export_metadata
cd default && gcloud app deploy
cd ..
cd background && gcloud app deploy background.yaml
```

8. Navigate to cloud scheduler and create a new job with the following settings:
- Frequency: * * * * *
- Target: App Engine HTTP
- URL: /monitor_services

The project should now be running on google cloud.

## Data from this project
A dump of data used for and generated by the webapp so far can be found here: 
https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/ptv-services-data-dump .
